Q1) What is Git?
Ans)=>>
1) Git is an open-source distributed version control system. 
2) It is designed to handle minor to major projects with high speed and efficiency. 
3) It is developed to co-ordinate the work among the developers. 
4) The version control allows us to track and work together with our team members at the same workspace.

Q2) What do you understand by version control system?

Ans) =>> 
A version control system is a software that tracks changes to a file or set of files over time so that you can recall specific versions later. 
It also allows you to work together with other programmers.

The version control system is a collection of software tools that help a team to manage changes in a source code. 
It uses a special kind of database to keep track of every modification to the code.

Developers can compare earlier versions of the code with an older version to fix the mistakes.

Q3) What is GitHub?

Ans) =>> 

GitHub is a Git repository hosting service. 
GitHub also facilitates with many of its features, such as access control and collaboration. 
It provides a Web-based graphical interface.
GitHub is an American company. It hosts source code of your project in the form of different programming languages and keeps track of the various changes made by programmers.
It offers both distributed version control and source code management (SCM) functionality of Git. 
It also facilitates with some collaboration features such as bug tracking, feature requests, task management for every project.

Q4) Mention some populor Git hosting Services?

Ans) =>> 
1) Github.
2) GitLab
3) BitBucket.
4) Beanstalk.
5) Gitblit.
etc.

Q5) Different types of version contril systems?

Ans) =>> 
 There are two types of version control systems.
 1) Centralized Version Control System.
 2) Distributed Version Control System.

Q6) What benifits come with using GIT?

 Ans) =>> 
 A version control application allows us to keep track of all the changes that we make in the files of our project. 
 Every time we make changes in files of an existing project, we can push those changes to a repository. 
 Other developers are allowed to pull your changes from the repository and continue to work with the updates that you added to the project files.

 Some significant benefits of using Git are:
 1) Save Time.
 2) Ofline Working.
 3) Undo Mistakes.
 4) Track changes.

Q7) What is a GIT repository?

 Ans) =>> 
In Git, the repository is like a data structure used by VCS to store metadata for a set of files and directories. 
It contains the collection of the files as well as the history of changes made to those files. 
Repository in Git is considered as your project folder. 
A repository has all the project-related data. Distinct projects have distinct repositories.

Q8) How can you initialize repository in Git?

Ans) =>> 
To initialize a new repository, run the command: git init 